# TimeSeriesElectricityUsagePredictions
Time Series Prediction for Forecasting Electricity Usage with AI Machine Learning Algorithms:

  According to a Time article written by Lynn Doan, the Texas power outages in February have affected at least two million households and businesses. Without electricity or any means of attaining warmth in these homes, when a storm hit Texas, nearly 80 people died. Electricity plays a major role in the lives of people, and without it, it would be nearly impossible for them to accomplish their daily tasks. As a result, the idea of electricity conservation must be handled with the same care and gravity. Overconsumption of electricity has not only environmental consequences but also financial ones. If the financial costs of electricity increase because of overuse, households will no longer be able to afford it, and families must begin to lead a life without this helpful resource. The objective of this engineering project is to create a prediction algorithm that forecasts future electricity usage based on past usage by implementing AI machine learning algorithms. The program utilizes the commonly used time-series model, ARIMA or autoregressive integrated moving average model, applied on a training set in order to identify correlations within the data and create predictions. Predictions are evaluated by comparing them to the actual values in the test set and by calculating the overall RMSE (Root Mean Square Error). After weeks worth of work, the project yielded an RMSE of 2.132 while predicting electricity usage data for the months of November and December.  
